title: New Beginnings
type: post
date: 2017-04-22 20:38:50
---
I realized recently that outside of work, I haven't really worked on any
personal programming projects in a really long time. I've occasionally started
to work on a project, but then let it die after just one session. I think that
one of the biggest reasons why I don't stick with the project is because I
don't have any kind of conversation about it, nor real project planning or
anything. I guess I don't want it to feel like work, haha.  

So I thought I'd actually but forth some work towards my personal site, and in
the process use it as a soapbox to talk about other projects I want to work on.
The hope being that I'll actually stick with them if I'm a bit more open with
what I'm working on. Who knows, maybe someone will take an interest in a
project and ask about it or contribute to it!  

<!--more-->

So let's talk about the new site! At the time of writing, the site doesn't
exist. This is actually the first file in the repository apart from the README.
I want to build a system that will compile content into a simple static site.
Nothing complicated, nothing fancy. I know there are all kinds of projects to
do exactly that, and that I'm kind of reinvesting the wheel here, but
reinventing the wheel is a fantastic way to learn about wheels!  

## Design Goals

**Basic architecture**  
I've been developing sites in a LAMP stack for a while now, so I'll stick to 
what I know for now. It would be fun to make a project in something I haven't
done much with before (like Go or Ruby), but I think I want the core part of my
site to be in my &quote;primary&quote; language. 

**Authoring content via markdown**  
I think markdown is the natural choice for an authoring format. You can quickly
and easily write a large amount of content, and most of the semantics you'd want
for an article are easily applied with a small amount of syntax sauce. Changing
the content is just as easy, and it renders into nice, clean markup. 

**Templating via Twig**  
I've yet to find a templating language I like as well as Twig. It has a simple
inheritance model so you can have actual inherited templates with overriden
content blocks. It only has access to data and function that are specifically
passed to it. The syntax is nice and clean, and fairly intuitive, while being
able to code in some basic logic and branches in your templates. 

**Content types**  
I actually really like the way that WordPress has their content types set up.
All content is pretty much authored the same way, but applying a specific
post type will result in a slightly different handling of the post contents
throughout the site.  

I think to start with I'll just have the page and post types, similar to the
default WordPress setup, but if I find a use for additional content types then
adding new templates for them should be very simple.

**Asset building via Mix**
The Laravel Mix project is currently the easiest asset building tool I've used.
It's certainly much easier than defining a large list of dependencies and 
writing an enormous gulpfile. It's fairly quick to install, and the syntax for
defining the steps in your build process is easy to use and flows nicely. There
is a minimum amount of configration required, so the overall footprint of what
gets committed to the repo is small and easy to understand.  

**Using Make as a task runner**  
I generally like the `Makefile` syntax for defining tasks (though I heavily
dislike the enforcement of hard-tabs), so I'll use it to define such tasks as
provisioning the initial install of the project (installing node and composer
packages), and as an entry point to compiling the site into static assets.
